DOCSUP-10112: Documented logical functions (#25797)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/sql-reference/functions/logical-functions.md

-   `NULL`, if there are no zero values arguments and there is at least one `NULL` argument.
-   `1`, otherwise.

Type: [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md) or [Nullable](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md)([UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT and(0, 1, -2);
```

Result:

``` text
┌─and(0, 1, -2)─┐
│             0 │
└───────────────┘
```

With `NULL`:

``` sql
SELECT and(NULL, 1, 10, -2);
```

Result:

``` text
┌─and(NULL, 1, 10, -2)─┐
│                 ᴺᵁᴸᴸ │
└──────────────────────┘
```

## or {#or-or-operator}

Calculates the result of the logical disjunction between two or more values. Corresponds to [Logical OR Operator](../../sql-reference/operators/index.md#logical-or-operator).

**Syntax**

``` sql
and(val1, val2...)
```

**Arguments**

-   `val` — list of at least two values. Any [Int-UInt](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md) type, [float](../../sql-reference/data-types/float.md) or [Nullable](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md). 

**Returned value**

-   `1`, if there is at least one non-zero value.
-   `0`, if there are only zero values.

> -   `NULL`, if there is at least one `NULL` values.

Reviewer: This is incorrect, because "SELECT 1 OR NULL returns 1"

> -   `NULL`, if there aren't any non-zero values besides `NULL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `NULL`, if there are only zero values and `NULL`.
```

Type: [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md) or [Nullable](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md)([UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT or(1, 0, 0, 2, NULL);
```

Result:

``` text
┌─or(1, 0, 0, 2, NULL)─┐
│                    1 │
└──────────────────────┘
```

With `NULL`:

``` sql
SELECT or(0, NULL);
```

Result:

``` text
┌─or(0, NULL)─┐
│        ᴺᵁᴸᴸ │
└─────────────┘
```

## not {#not-not-operator}

Calculates the result of the logical negation of a value. Corresponds to [Logical Negation Operator](../../sql-reference/operators/index.md#logical-negation-operator).

**Syntax**

``` sql
not(val);
```

**Arguments**

-   `val` — value. Any [Int-UInt](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md) type, [float](../../sql-reference/data-types/float.md) or [Nullable](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md). 

**Returned value**

> -   `1`, if the `val` is a `0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `1`, if the `val` is `0`.
```

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT NOT(1);
```

Result:

``` test
┌─not(1)─┐
│      0 │
└────────┘
```

## xor {#xor}

Calculates the result of the logical exclusive disjunction between two or more values. For more than two values the function works as if it calculates `XOR` of the first two values and then uses the result with the next value to calculate `XOR` and so on. Corresponds to [Logical XOR Operator](../../sql-reference/operators/index.md#logical-xor-operator).

**Syntax**

``` sql
xor(val1, val2...)
```

**Arguments**

-   `val` — list of at least two values. Any [Int-UInt](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md) type, [float](../../sql-reference/data-types/float.md) or [Nullable](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md). 

**Returned value**

-   `1`, for two values: if one of the values is zero and other is not. 
-   `0`, for two values: if both values are zero or non-zero at the same.
-   `NULL`, if there is at least one `NULL` values.

Type: [UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md) or [Nullable](../../sql-reference/data-types/nullable.md)([UInt8](../../sql-reference/data-types/int-uint.md)).

**Example**

Query:

``` sql
SELECT xor(0, 1, 1);
```

> Result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Result:
```
